Cybersecurity is a crucial part of everyday life. Be it an individual user with only an email address accessed monthly through a library computer or an international company with thousands of employees, everyone is facing risks. Be it self-inflicted dangers from reckless usage of their own devices, having been selected by automated mass phishing email, or password spraying against their online account, or being specifically targeted; everyone is still at risk of losing their data or privacy to a malicious actor or for good. Even though most people are aware of these ever-looming threats, only some know about relevant security best practices for data protection and retention, as even once-good advice and lessons learned may have aged with the transition to a more internet-connected environment in the last two decades.

With the higher connectivity, new services have arisen, one of the types being security-as-a-services cloud applications that offer to solve the users' cybersecurity needs, significantly streamlining their security workflow. Instead of having all passwords written on post-it notes around the room or inside an encrypted file on the computer, the users can use a cloud-based password manager that automatically synchronizes between all their devices and auto-fill their passwords whenever needed. Even better, the regular user may not need any password manager at all, as they have a single account with a password-less login, which they use to authenticate against all other applications with a single sign-on. Students no longer have to worry about losing their draft of a lengthy paper just a week before deadline due to accidental deletion of the document or laptop's disc failure because they can simply log in to their friend's computer and download the latest version from a trashbin of their cloud storage provider. A company will not cease to exist because a water main break caused the server room to flood, as they have all their websites distributed around the globe in various data centers managed by their cloud provider. These are just a few examples of how security-as-a-service cloud applications can simplify everyday operations.

In this thesis, I first compare what advice regarding computer security is available and what a general user may stumble upon their counter-examples in security best practices. As this thesis is being tailored to a broad audience with different skill sets and levels in their IT backgrounds, in the second chapter, I present and quantify what knowledge can be expected by expressing existing publications in a unified international standard. Afterwards, in Chapter 3, I set forth selected profiles demonstrating standard settings of a combination of a person's IT knowledge and their needs, ranging from a family with minimal technical knowledge to a small technology start-up company. Next, in Chapter 4, I explore selected large general security-as-a-service solutions and their capabilities, together with a small set of solutions tailored for a specific tasks. Finally, in Chapter 5, I showcase the methodology for deciding which solution best fits the needs of the before-mentioned profiles. In Chapter 6, I describe the best possible solutions for each profile in detail.