In this thesis, I have first shown what existing publications exist on the subject of SOHO cybersecurity and what advice the SOHO users may already know regarding computer security and safety. I have put this advice in context with current practices and shown that not all of the advice is still relevant, that following them may come at the cost of highly decreased user comfort, or that the recommendation is over the skill level of the users.

Next, I have identified four distinct user archetypes -- low-tech skilled family, low-tech skilled university student, individual tech-skilled user, and small technology company start-up -- where every profile has a specific set of cybersecurity needs, with some shared between all the profiles. I have put the profiles in context with current publications and the Digital Competence Framework to provide a baseline of the user's level of technical skills. Next, I have formulated cybersecurity requirements for all the profiles. These requirements were based on questionnaires, hands-on discussions, and personal experience with people matching the profile specifications, meaning the displayed profiles' problems and needs are a mixture of real-life examples.

After profiles were defined, I have presented services provided by a range of security-as-a-service products that either cover a broad spectrum of user needs -- Google, Microsoft, Apple, Proton -- or are specialized in solving a specific area -- Cloudflare for hosting web services, Bitwarden for storing passwords, BackBlaze for data backup and retention, CryptPad for an end-to-end encrypted web-based office suite. 

To evaluate which service solves the needs and problems of each profile to the highest degree, I have formulated a methodology. The methodology focuses on the usability aspects of the solution, price, integration with other systems and user understanding of the inner workings via a point system that awards the most points to the services that fit specific criteria concerning the profiles.

I have described the services evaluated as best for each profile in more detail, along with the advantages and disadvantages over other services. I have shown that nowadays, even a single or a small number of services may solve a large area of cybersecurity needs while simultaneously making the user's life easier and increasing their security posture, e.g. by mitigating simple-to-break passwords by not using passwords at all. I have presented that these services that solve threats to the user's security, privacy or data retention can be used either free of charge or at a reasonably low cost. I have concluded that with these services, even users with little digital competence can take advantage of the increased security they provide.