
In this thesis I have identified 4 of the user archetypes -- low-tech skilled family, low-tech skilled university student, individual tech-skilled user, small technology company start-up -- that I have put in context with current publications and the Digital Competence framework. Next, I have formulated a supposed workflow for all of the profiles, based upon personal experience, questionnaire and in-person discussions. This supposed workflow focuses on the security workflow, together with privacy and data retention. After the workflow is formulated for every profile, I have described patterns and anti-patterns that can be found inside it and its possible consequences.
After profiles were defined, together with problems in their approaches and needs that should be resolved, I have presented a range of security-as-a-service products, that either cover a broad spectrum of user needs -- Google, Microsoft, Apple, Proton -- or are specialized in solving a specific area -- Cloudflare for hosting web services, Bitwarden for storing passwords, BackBlaze for data backup, CryptPad for end-to-end encrypted web-based office suite. Next, as some of the solutions are not available for free or are more complex to set-up, for every profile I have also analyzed and described in detail how their needs and problems could be solved by attempting to self-host services with Synology NAS device.
To be able to formulate which services solve the needs and problems of the profiles to the highest degree, I have formulated a methodology that can uses a point system that awards most points to the services that fit certain criteria in respect to the profiles. In the last chapter, I have described the solutions with most points in detail, together with the solution by trying to self-host everything on a Synology NAS.