Cyber-security is a crucial part of everyday lives. Be it an individual user with only an email address accessed monthly through library computer or an international company with thousands of employees, everyone is facing risks. Be it self-inflicted dangers from reckless usage of their own devices, having been selected by automated mass phishing email or password spraying against their online account or being specifically targeted, everyone is still under risk of loosing their data or privacy to a malicious actor or for good. Even though most people are aware of these ever-looming threat, only some do know about relevant security best practices for data protection and retention, as even once-good advises and lessons-learned may have aged with transition to a more Internet-connected environment in the last two decades. Together with the higher connectivity, new services have arises, one of the type being security-as-a-services cloud application, that offer to solve the cyber-security needs of the users for them, possibly significantly streamlining their security workflow.

In this thesis, I first compare what advises regarding computer security are currently available and  a general user may currently stumble upon with their counter-examples in security best practices. As this thesis is being tailored to a wide audience with different skill sets and levels in their IT backgrounds, in the seconds chapter I present and quantify what knowledge can be expected by expressing existing publications in a unified international standart. Afterwards, in chapter 3, I set forth selected profiles demonstrating common settings of combination of person's IT knowledge and their needs, ranging from a family with minimal technical knowledge to a small technology start-up company. Afterwards, in chapter 4 I explore selected large general security-as-a-service solutions and their capabilities, together with a small set of solutions tailored for a specific task. Finally, in chapter 5, I showcase metodology for deciding which solution best fits the needs of before mentioned profiles, and in chapter 6 describe the best possible solutions for each profile in detail.