Related to security in general, there exists numerous publications on how to perform day to day operation with best practices. However, they often concentrate more on the business side of user population.

One such example can be found in a book "Information Security Best Practices: 205 Basic Rules"~[[@Stefanek_2002]], which covers a wide range of best practices that everyone, according to the book, should follow. These practices do include typical advises like "Use an automatic password generator to help the user with password creation.", "Use a virus scanner on every computer.", "Keep up to date with newly released security software that may enhance security.", and "Use a firewall to separate your internal network from the internet.", three of the later are nowadays trivially solved by using Windows OS. As to highlight the more business-oriented focus of this book, there are often mentions about employees and their security training as to reduce the risk of human error leading to possible security breaches. Though, some of the best-practices presented in this book may be considered severely outdated, such as "To stop mailings from a known source, send mail to the source with instructions to remove you from their mail list.", which is presently replaced by the mandatory Unsubscribe button~[[@blogGmailProtections]]`TEX:\footnote{The option to easily unsubscribe is being mandated by large freemail providers Google and Yahoo}` included in mass email. Another already outdated example may be of "If you are in the process of being spammed, stop your post office process on the mail server.", where ideally the mail server should handle higher load of messages by itself, or should be hosted by a third party is capable of managing such load. By fully shutting down the mailing server, the administrator is accepting a risk of loosing legitimate email communication.

By moving from business-oriented publications towards the SOHO networks, a regularly updated`TEX:\footnote{The newest published version is from 2024, this thesis is citing from its previous version published in 2020}` textbook "Guide to Computer Network Security"~[[@springerGuideComputer]], includes a chapter specifically about home local area network. In that chapter, similarity to the previous source, it provides advises such as "Use virus protection software." and "Use a firewall."  One of its more controversial propositions is to "Disable Java, JavaScript, and ActiveX if possible.", as doing so may cause issues with many websites that nowadays require JavaScript for proper functioning, putting aside that Java was fully disabled by browsers like Google Chrome in 2015.~[[@javaWebBrowser]] Another example of fully outdated proposition may be "Disable scripting features in e-mail programs.", which may not be feasible for regular users who rely on web-based email interfaces provided by their email providers, as even Google is disabling its original basic HTML view~[[@thevergeGmailsBasic]]. As for the recommendation of to "Make a boot disk in case your computer is damaged or compromised.", this may be above the skill level of regular user, who may rather use the help of an professional, which is thankfully also recommend in "Consult your system support personnel if you work from home.". In "Make regular backups of critical data.", the textbook correctly points out that backups are essential for protecting important data from loss or damage. However, same as for the last advice, it can be challenging for a regular user to determine which backup solution is secure and reliable without proper guidance. Additionally, in a section about family LAN, this publication from 2020 does not mention the latest security solutions available today, such as WPA3. Another suggestion from the guide is "Turn network name broadcasting off", which hides the SSID of the wireless network and, according to the book, should increase the network security, while in fact the opposite may be true. By hiding the network's SSID it is necessary to manually configure every device to connect to it, which the devices do by broadcasting the names of known network, compromising device owner's privacy, as the broadcasts are not encrypted and could lead to a fingerprinting and tracking of the user. Next, the textbook proposes to "Use the MAC address filter" as to prevent unauthorized devices from accessing the network. Because the MAC addresses can generally be easily spoofed, the security improvement of this advice is quite low, and in the end the general user following this advice will face a much bigger overhead than necessary when setting up any new device.

To step one step closer to a level of an individual user, we may draw inspiration from a bachelor thesis, titled "Selected open tools supporting security and privacy protection for regular end-users"~[[@Ciernikova2022thesis]], which focuses on the security and privacy needs of regular users. The author defines two user categories: beginners and intermediate users. Beginners have "lack of information security and privacy knowledge" and require "their system needs to be secured by default", whereas intermediate users "are aware of basic threats they might encounter", "are confident with adjusting some system properties and trying new features and applications", while to "solve problems, they can search for, read and understand standard documentation". Although the definition of these user profiles may be rather straightforward, they serve as a baseline for comparison when defining other user profiles later in this thesis. The thesis emphasizes the use of open source tools for data security and privacy protection, rather than commercial software, which is more commonly used by regular users. Because commercial software also includes widely used tools like an operating system from Microsoft, a freemail web client, and a Microsoft office suite for performing of basic document and spreadsheet tasks, these are omitted from this thesis.

Though when continuing in the direction of commercial operating systems, it is worth mentioning another bachelor thesis called "Password Managers: a survey"[[@Pecuch2021thesis]]. This thesis examines various password managers with a condition that they are able to run on the Windows operating system. This presents an opportunity for us to compare different software that can be used by or recommended to a general user. The thesis also has a strong focus on usability, which is essential for the general audience who may not have extensive knowledge about security. The software selection in this thesis is similar to a previous bachelor thesis about open tool, which included KeePass password manager in some variation, PasswordSafe and Bitwarden. The main difference may be that, in this thesis, the KeePass is its original product, whereas in the previous thesis, the more modern-looking KeepasXC was presented[[@Ciernikova2022thesis]]. While this thesis mainly focuses on the analysis of password managers, which is a very narrow part of the overall scope, it can provide useful insights into what to expect.

Moving away from password managers and focusing more on the data retention aspect of computer security, it may be interesting to mention paper called "Personal & SOHO Archiving"~[[@Strodl_Motlik_Stadler_Rauber_2008]], which discusses the differences between archiving data for archival and for personal purposes. The paper presents a special solution for data archiving. Although the software used in the paper is not widely adapted, it provides valuable insights into the challenges a Soho user may face when trying to archive data for long-term storage. This concludes the existing related work for our thesis purposes.